LOCAL NEWS

The Daily Colonist.

(ESTABLISHED 1858)

VICTORIA, BRITISH COLUMBIA, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1972

Wherever You Are . . .

Please Write to Us, PP

By DON COLLINS

Colonist Labor Reporter
Special to THE STAR

One day soon stacks of pamphlets will find their way into the hands of millworkers and many of the others who toll for their living in the forest industry of B.C.

It will be part of the biennial pitch to the rank-and-file members of the International from the men who would like Woodworkers of America to influence the western Canada leadership vote.

Student Election Method Rapped

Alma Mater

University of Victoria senate at a meeting Wednesday tabled a motion criticizing methods being used by the Alma Mater Society in electing student representatives to the university academic governing body.

Student Senate

By
Dennis J. O'Brien

Student senator Derry McDonell said the student council and the student newspaper, the Martlet, had refused to publicize the names of those seeking election to the senate.

McDonell told the senate he had asked that the student body postpone the election, set for this Friday, for one week to enable students to learn who was running and what the candidate's platforms comprised. He said his request had been refused.

Most unions today allow convention delegates to elect their top officers. The IWA permits nominations only at its conventions and takes the actual vote to the membership at large.

All in the name of democracy

The union says it is tightly controlled this way by the rank-and-file. And so far the same rank-and file hasn't proposed a better way to run things.

Generally this makes for noisy political conventions, but the IWA western regional convention that wound up last Friday at Vancouver was unusually quiet.

The powerful group usually opposed to regional president Jack Moore and his band of establishment officers kept the rumble of discontent .this

Hydrants Show Off Their Personalities

Photographers usually see things through different eyes than most people. It's a condition of their art.

Over the years as photographer William E. John made his rounds looking for interesting shots, he became aware of fire hydrants.

"I began to notice that fire hydrants were different, that each one had its own personality. That's how I started taking pictures of them."

And that's how this series was born. John hunkered down and focussed his camera on the hydrants, catching them on film in ways that seemed to give them an almost-human aspect.

Democracy Roams B.C. Woods

Local Politics

"This is really a sign of the dissatisfaction of the rank-and-file," Drew said in an interview Wednesday. "I think it shows that the membership of the locals is not prepared to support the leaders."

JOURNAL OF POLITICAL HISTORY

Opposition to what they see as the ineffective leadership of the 48-year-old Moore is written off by them as grassroots opposition.

When the time comes to carry the election message to the members of his local, he says his officers "certainly won't be supporting the administration."

Administration.

Syd Thompson, whose 7,00,-member Vancouver local is the biggest of all, fully expects his men will sound the call for an anti-administration vote. But that will have to wait until his executive meets Friday and the membership meets Saturday.

He spoke out against dissident fallers who were conducting an illegal strike for a standard formula and agreed with the switch from piece-work rates to a day rate for them, although they opposed this.

Stepped-Up Vigilance

More than a dozen times a year, Victoria police crack down on jaywalkers at downtown intersections. Another of what police call "routine checks" took place Wednesday as traffic Constable John Nicholson Smith, from left, helped, advised, warned and ticketed pedestrians who ignored Don't Walk signs. Later, police said Smith and other officers gave out about 40 tickets.

Twelve days ago, Mayor Peter Pollen and his task force on planning left for a European tour, and nothing has been heard from them since.

In city hall coffee shop circles, the voyage is already being referred to as the Lost Expedition.1"No such luck; not a word, which means they are either very busy looking at Munich

Demonstration Avoided

Davis Promises Sockeye Check

Environment Minister
Jack Davis dodged protesting Indian fishermen all day Wednesday in Port Alberni before finally meeting with them to discuss native fishing rights.

But Lucas said Wednesday night that Indian women will go out and catch their own sockeye for home use — regardless of the findings of the fisheries representative. He said the representative will be accompanied by Chief Ernest David of the Opitsat band across from Tofino.

Opitsat Band

Davis met with the Indians in Port Alberni's Indian Friendship Centre at about 6 p.m. He listened to chiefs representing 10 bands and promised that today (Thursday) he would send a federal fisheries representative to Tofino to assess the sockeye salmon situation to see if there are enough of the sockeyes to let the Indians fish.

AP

ALBERNI
TOFINO

Earlier Wednesday, Davis avoided a public confrontation with about 109 persons representing bands from the Port Alberni and Tofino areas.

The Indians were protesting for the second time since Monday a commercial fishing ban on sockeye salmon in Tofino Inlet. They claim the closure prohibits them from taking fish for food. A group of Indians — about 200 — demonstrated peacefully Monday against the ban outside the federal building at Tofno.

C-1

Davis toured the Port Alberni harbor Wednesday and Indian demonstrators were waiting at the dock to meet him. But Davis landed at another point and went immediately to a private meeting with Port Albernia commercial fishermen.

He had agreed earlier to a private meeting with the protesting Indians.

Byron Williams

(S) (C) (P)Mrs. Barney Williams of Tofino, whose husband organized the protest, said the group is "happy that he's doing something, anyway."

Being a British subject alone will not, before too long, be enough to qualify a resident of Canada to vote in a federal election.

—Continued

Indians have been granted permits each fall to spear, gaff or net salmon, rather than fish for them in conventional manner.

The Indians

Indians have also been told

—William A. Boucher photos

Liberal

During the demonstration Wednesday, the protesters marched for about two hours — between the dock and the Liberal campaign headquarters.

By Robert Lucas

"It was a real nice, peaceful demonstration," said Lucas. "We sang some Indian songs and had a few speeches."

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

By WILLIAM H. WRIGHT,
of the Board.

Educational Soiree Went by the Board

There was just one thing wrong when the annual social for Sooke trustees and teachers convened Wednesday night.

THE SCHOOL BOARD OF THE CITY OF PORTLAND

No members of the school board were present.

At least 260 teachers came to the social, said teacher spokesman Ken Warren later, but none of the seven board members turned up. One, chairman Fred Willway, was ill, but "we don't have any idea where the other six might have been."

Citizenship Pays

In Federal Vote

Since that date, a residence-in-Canada period of five years has been necessary and the age must have been 29 on June 25, 1867.

June 25, 1967.