SATISFIED THAT THE ECONOMIC POLICIES
of the Liberal government are correct, Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau admits he is puzzled by the contradiction of his theories by the facts.

"Yes, I think it is a fair answer to say we are puzzled ... because every other economic indicator shows that the economy is booming," Mr. Trudeau said.

If that were strictly true, how can it come about that so many Canadians still live below what is considered the poverty level?

How is it that national production lags and the rate of bankruptcy continues to increase?

Although the output of Canadian goods and services totalled $92.13 billion in 1971, and the $109 billion mark seemed likely in 2002, a large part of the increase is discounted by inflation. Just how much, statisticians find it difficult to estimate. Moreover, the increase of the physical volume of output fell short of what the Economic Council of Canada has said the country needs to catch up with potential production and reduce unemployment to tolerable levels.

The 1971 gross national production $92.13, the council estimates, fell about 2.4 per cent short of potential. In 1068 Canada was running only 1 per cent

Since Mr. Trudeau must be aware of these facts, and all his ministers with him, the perplexity of the government over continued unemployment increases and the failure of the unemployment insurance formula cannot be accepted as sincere.

THERE WAS A REPORTED CASE of bicycle hit-and-run in Victoria the other day which, although not unheard of in the past, could serve a useful purpose now. It points to the continuing, in fact growing, popularity of cycling as a means of transportation for work as well as pleasure. And the incident might stir the authorities into paying greater attention to various factors involved.

Martial Law a Dangerous Weapon

When martial law was finally imposed on the Philippines for the first time in the 26-year-old history of the independent republic, President Ferdinand E. Marcos created both a shock and an anticlimax.

Marcos is a man with a strong desire to give a greater sense of achievement and direction to a country which has generally followed an erratic course in the years since independence, never realizing its inherent promise. It is likely that he saw the floods as threatening to wash away his hoped-for place in future Philippine history books.

But his critics were still

looking elsewhere, preoc-

"An Independent Newspaper . . . The Organ of No Clique or Party"

Published every morning except Monday by The Colonist Publishers Limited at 2621 Douglas Street,
Victoria, B.C. Second class mail registration number 0516. All undelivered copies or any notices respecting
changes of address are to be sent to the above address. Member Audit Bureau of Circulation.Richard Bower — Publisher and Editor-in-Chief1972

Facts Expose Fallacies

The Boom in Bikes

Marcos: Philippines' Man in a Muddle

AP/WIDE WORLD

By Special Correspondent from Hong Kong

IMPELDA

A political
party

Fears grew in September

The eventual withdrawal of the suspension under a furore of criticism was hailed as a victory for civil rights and democracy. The "victors", however, were not—seemingly reassured by their triumph and suspected that next time around, the president would opt for emergency power provided by the constitution. When a mysterious series of bombing incidents hit Manila in September, and when Marcos, without concrete, objective evidence, immediately blamed the communists, the "next time around" seemed to be at hand.

Under the Philippines con-

Marcos has imprisoned some of his long-standing critics and temporarily obliterated the impact of their previous criticism of his motives and intentions.

By Robert Kagan

C-1

On September 30 the government announced the arrest of Goh Ng Guan, who was officially said to be an organizer of Chinese communist fronts, Chinese communist propaganda in the media and in the schools, and detained Roxas Chua, well known as one of the biggest sugar merchants, and three other Chinese.

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1972

THE NEW YORK TIMES

This sort of thing, like a good many other aspects of the sick economy, is not acceptable to Robert Stanfield, leader of the Progressive Conservatives. And he now proposes to do something about wage and price controls, something Mr. Trudeau has declined to consider.

Additionally, Mr. Stanfield plans such stimulants as adjustment downwards of personal income taxes, incentives to employment and expansion of industry, scrapping of the 12 per cent construction tax and immediate increases in the old age pension.

But possibly the most attractive thing about Mr. Stanfield's economic policy is his determination to revise the unemployment insurance scheme, which he has described as nothing more than "a new welfare system."

For this costly program Mr. Stanfield demands an accounting from the government. He is not alone. Most Canadians, aware that they face new taxes to support it, are anxious. The government at this point cannot possibly calculate the ultimate deficit. But, what is worse, there is no assurance whatever that the unemployment insurance scheme does anything to improve the general strength of the economic structure. It may very well impair it.

Mr. Trudeau has been deceived into accepting the thesis that a benevolent government through various forms of social assistance can make a country happy, prosperous and great. He is mistaken. Doles for the unemployed are not the answer. Jobs, Mr. Trudeau. That is what Canadians want, and the privilege of designing their own security.

Chua is also well known for his close connections with the powerful pro-Kuomintang lobby among Filipino Chinese. So while the announcement of the arrest of Goh was the first time recently that Peking had been specifically and officially linked to communist propaganda in the Philippines, the pro-Nationalists among the Chinese were also placed on the defensive.

This move is likely to boost the apparent popular surge behind President Marcos' declaration of martial law.

Anti-Chinese feeling is an ever-present factor in the Philippines. One aspect behind it is the widespread suspicion that the Chinese (of whom there are 600,00 in the Philipines) manipulate essential commodity prices through hoarding and other methods.

Four hundred thousand members of the Marcos administration, ranging from janitors to district judges, have been asked to submit their resignations by October 15.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Cabinet Resignations

(AP) — Even cabinet ministers are expected to submit their "courtesy resignations" by the same date, suggesting a cabinet reshuffle in the making.

PHILADELPHIA, D. C., July 10 (AP)—The resignation of Mr. Tolson was announced at 1:30 p.m. today, and it is expected that other cabinet members will follow suit.

It is believed that the resignations are part of a larger plan to reorganize the administration.The new appointments are expected soon.A source said that the administration is looking for a strong leadership team.This move is seen as a response to recent political developments.An announcement is expected later today.In the meantime, the public is waiting for more details on the new cabinet.Sources say that the process is moving quickly.All eyes are now on the incoming administration.

Military Take-Over Tempting

The Uruguayan government's energetic onslaught against the Tupamaros has paid off handsomely — on the surface. About 2,40o urban guerrilla suspects are behind bars and most of their known leaders have been slain or captured, including the founder and leader Raul Sendie. He is now in hospital badly disfigured by an army bullet that ripped through his cheeks.

— THE NEW YORK TIMES

THE TUPAMAROS

THE

In their battle with the terrorists the armed forces have absorbed some of their enemies' ideas. The latest issue of Azul y Blanco (Blue and White—the national colors), which is the mouthpiece of the more right-wing military establishment, whose representatives hold many of the key positions in the armedforces, specifically stated that the armedforcess did not see the suppression of the working class as an integral part of their mission. The all-out war against terrorism has made the traditionally apolitical military chiefs more conscious of the plight of millions of ordinary Uruguayans, and has reinforced their contempt for the civilian authorities. Azul yBlanco implied that the army had learned many lessons from its defeated foes, and was not disposed to remain a mere bulwark of a regime based on "social injustice."

The Armed Forces

The armed forces have quickly grown accustomed to playing a major role in Uruguayan life, and have given little indication that they are prepared to fade decorously from the scene now their duty has been accomplished.

The top brass is fascinated by the example of the Peruvian military dictatorship, which has been pushing through a number of populist-favored social reforms against the opposition of a rich elite that had controlled the country for generations. General Gregorio Alvar, currently chief of Uruguay's joint general staff, is known to be attracted by this line of thought.

Defeat of Uruguayan Terror Mission Accomplished Only at Great Cost

By JAMES NEILSON from Buenos Aires

REVIEWS

[REVIEWER'S NAME]

J. Amer. Stud., 19 (1985),
pp. 1–2. £10.00.
Cambridge University Press.

Although the Tupamaros have been physically beaten they had already achieved most of their short-term objectives. Inflation is roaring through the Uruguayan economy, plunging millions of Uruguacan workers into penury and even resulting in cases of starvation in a country that, not so long ago, was overflowing with cheap food. Bordaberry has committed himself to carrying through an extremely strict austerity plan approved by the International Monetary Fund, and this has earned him the furious opposition of the trade unions which are demanding a blanket wage rise of 40 per cent immediately. They have been harassing him with strikes that continually bring the nation almost to a complete halt.

The inability of the commercial establishment or the politicians to cope with the crisis has eroded what faith the people had in them. Calls for even greater state intervention to prevent unemployment following the bankruptcies of business concerns have been getting louder. The argument that many of Uruguay's troubles can be laid at the feet of an already over-extended state bureaucracy is all but ignored.

I Beg to Differ

Extermination Either Way

Sometimes it seems to me
that today the pendulum is
swinging too quickly.

I am not, however, so sure.

THE ECOLOGY KICK

he tells me, each family should have a minimum of 2½ children. The zero population theory means a steady decline and eventually disappearance.These two letters aptly illustrate my dilemma. I'm essentially a quiet type who doesn't like arguments. But if I opt for the 2¼-child family I will be attacked by the two-child advocate, and vice versa.

For every learned article explaining to me how we are lousing up our world at a deadly rate, I would see another one equally as learned telling me the complete opposite.

This expert contends that the only answer is "zero population control" — that all families from now on should be limited to two children.

TISH.

Wolves are good-bad. Tick off your answer. Polar bears are on the increase-decrease. Do likewise. Socialism may be helpful-harmful to your wealth. Take your choice.

There was a time, when the pendulum moved more slow-

The other expert writes,
equally lucidly, to explain
that he believes man will disappear in the next few
hundred years because of lack
of population.

THE PROBLEM OF THE FUTURE

Today in History

On this date in history, significant events have shaped our world. From ancient civilizations to modern technological advancements, learn about the key moments that define each day.

By THE CANADIAN PRESS

Polio Epidemic

Toronto public schools reopened 35 years ago today — in 1937 — after the summer vacation and six weeks' delay caused by a polio epidemic. An estimated 3,700 cases had been reported since July, with 150 deaths.

WORLD NEWS

1936 — Britain, France and the United States announced a new type of gold standard.

— 1924 — Peter II was proclaimed king of Yugoslavia.

1915 — Edith Cavell, a British nurse, was executed by the Germans as a spy in the First World War.---

150 deaths.

1956 — The Fowler Commission on broadcasting in Canada ended its public hearings.

Meat

In an effort to increase exports the government decided to institute a total ban on beef consumption, and this elimination of what was once the staple diet of Uruguayans has increased discontent at all levels. It has also encouraged the thriving black market, where prices are absurdly high for the housewives' shrinking budgets.

Making a Judgement

As the disarray and helplessness of the civilians becomes more and more manifest, eyes are turning to the armed forces which are basking in the prestige gained by their defeat of the Tupamaros. Their campaign was sometimes brutal and took innocent lives, but it worked, and they showed efficiency. The Tupamaro's, after all, were one of the most deeply entrenched and best organized guerrilla movements in the world. The armed forces, flushed with their success, have many officers who believe they could be equally effective in solving the rest of the nation's problems.

Nothing at all.

The same thing happened when somebody discovered that our oceans were dying. In a matter of hours people who had never seen salt water were up to their mouths in the discussion — while I was still peering at an atlas trying to find out where that Humboldt Current really was.

First world war.

Because I figure the newest popular disaster will either go away as suddenly as it appeared — or after about five years the hysteria will have been squeezed out of the subject and a little rational discussion can take place.S