modetling of physical systems (Lee et al 1968).

ft came 26 &@ shack ts cantrot engineers in the 56's to
discover that the optimal controller for a linear system was
not ftself tinear. Pontryagtnts famous ‘maximum’ orineiote
(Leendes 1965) showed that to ciianae the state af a linear
system In minimum time one aiwayvs had to appiy the maximum
avallable force to ft. Only the sense of that force varied and
this was determined by a ‘switching surface’ in the state
space of the system, This resulted in a massive effort ta
determine the forms of such ‘optimal controllers’ for a wide
varlety of systems. it was a major change of direction for CE
because the switching surfaces made the control algorithm a
discontinuous, deciston-making strategy, utterly different
from that of classtecal continuous control. ft was soon
discovered (Wilde & Wescott 1962) that the human controtter
used such ‘bang-hang’ strategies in limb movements so that, as
go often happens, nature had been there a)1 the while. The
application of optimal contro! to industrial systems became
feasible with the advert of on-line computer control but, and
here comes the moral of the story, it proved very
disappointing in practice larrgety because the ootimal
controllers tended to be extremely sensttive to errors in
plant models, becoming very non-optimal when the real wortd
Was Rot orecisely as expected. Fuller's (1967) classic paper
showed that the old linear controlier was not ali that
sub-optimal, and far more robust te changing plant
characteristics. In retrospect one can see that the definition
of optimality was at fault, and that In real CE the goal ts
not the optimal control of one presertbed plant, but the
reasonable control of any of a range of possibie plants. This
concept was given a rigorous interpretation by Kwakernaak
(1965) who termed a controller ‘admisstbie’ for a range of
plants ff their was no cther controller that was uniformly
better for all of them (a concept borrowed from statistics, and
avery useful one).

2.2 The Notlon of ‘State’ and Automata

There {s one Important concept larrely developed In CF
which we probably all take for granted se much as to forget
its comparatively recent orfgins. The ‘state’ of a system may
be defined as the minimum Informatton necessary to acesunt far
Its potential future behaviour. Whtist the concept fs a
stralghforward one In terms of system structure, [It becomes
very much more subtle when used to define the ‘state’ of a
model of a system determined from Its behaviour. Many systems
theorists In recent years have analysed the concept of "state"
in ways that throw tnteresting light on tha nature of
explanation and causality - Zadeh (1964), Zadeh & hesoer
*2963) or Zadeh & Potak (1971) are good Introductions.

in a recent article, Arbth (1975b)} points out that
Wiener, who as the father of cybernetics might be expected te
be very state-orlentated, did not use the concept - Ris was a
more “rheological” approach relating the entire past histery
