approach by giving the controller tnittal “insseuectens" of
the form, ‘If the pressure error is negative big, and thea
change Im pressure error Is near zero then Increase tne hast
Input siitghtiy’., A fuzzy control strategy of this form was
constructed and used quite formally by the cantroaller ec a
computer program embodying the rutes of fuzzy lorie. The
resultant performance was better than that of the best linear
controllers and way beyond that ever achteved by anv of the
“Yearning machines’ !

The most fascinating aspect of this story fs the way in
which the synthesis of a control policy using fuzzy reasoning
so mirrors one's Intuitive grasp of how controllers are
devetoped. The destgn engtneer ‘plays' with the plant, getttriz
the ‘feel’ of it before taking formal measurements. His mode}
of the plant and the instrumentation to enable this to be
quantiffled are conditioned by hts knowledge of it, and those
ltke it, and by his own Interaction with it. Currently this
knowledge is translated Into the mathematics of linear system
theory and the design of a@ controller then becomes a
mathematical problem, The direct linguistic transformation of
statements about the plant Inte a contre! strategy is Im many
ways more natural. Mamdani has recently produced independent
evidence that this ts so: Chapter 10 of Perry & Waddall's
(1972) book on rotary cement kilns ts an operations handbook
for the human operator of a lime kiln. Since ft is intended to
be valid for any kttn it is couched In qualitative rather than
numeric terms, and consists of 27 rules of the form: "Tf the
hurning zone temperature ts drastically low, the percentage of
oxygen is low and the back-end temperature fs Tow then reduce
the kiln speed and reduce the fuel", ete., a ‘fuzzy’ contro}
strategy priming the human controller !

Like algebraic techniques, or any Innevation In any
subject area, it wit?t take time for results such as those of
Mamdant & Assilfan to be tested In a range of situations and
assimitated into CE. However, they do [liustrate that the gap
between the continuous linear world of CE and the
discontinuous lingulstte world of Af ts mot insuperable.

5 References

M.A.Arbib (1965) A common framework for automata theory and
control theory, SIAM Journal of Control, vol.3, p9.206-222,

M.A.Arbib (1966) Automata theory and control theory: a
rapprochement, Automatica, vol.3, po.161-189.

M.A.Arbib (1975a) From automata theory to brain theory,
International Journal of Man-Machine Studies, vol.7, pt.3.

M.A.Arbib (1975b) Cyberneties after 25 years: a personal view
of system theory and brain theory, IEFE Transactions on
Systems, Man and Cybernetics, May 1975, vol.SMC=-5, pp.359-353,
