~

Gaines, B. R. (1975). Control engineering and artificial intelligence. In Lecture Notes of AISB Summer School on
Artificial Intelligence, pp. 52-60. AISB, Cambridge, UK.

CONTROL ENGINEERING SND APTEFICTAL INTELLIGENCE
BR .Gatnes

Department of Electrical Ensitneert ng,
University of Essex, Colchester, Essex, U.K.

1 Background

The relationship between control engineerIng (ME) and
artiffctal intetifeence CAI) Is sientfteant far workers ina
both distipliness-

SYSTEM<-THEORETICALLY there Is much common ground In both
obtectives and activittes, for example: ‘Identification and
modetling' tn CE cf 'knewledge acaulsition and structurtng’ in
At, or ‘control! tna CE cf 'goal-seeking' In At. By way of
contrast, however, ‘stabitity and sensitivity’ analysis so
central to CE seem to have no real equivatent In Al (perhaps
some. concent of ‘rokhustness! of knowledee structures and of
Strategies), and the linguistic informatton processing so
ublauitous {tn Al has no real equivalent in CE much to Its
detriment - see section &).

TERMINOLOGICALLY both distpltnes have borrowed their
vocabularfes freely from human analogies, e.g. ‘adaptive and
Jearning' centrollers and robots, and this leads to a
superfictal resemblance that does not necessarily denote a
true correspondence and may be misteading.

SOCIOLOGICALLY both distolines are new and have had to
establish thelr identities In the face of substanttal
opposition. Perhaps CE has had the easter time of it tn
growtne out of well-established Engeineertne Separtments,
whereas Al has had to struggle free of Commuter Sclence,
itself struggling free from Mathematics Departments. However
that fs another story not appropriate to these notes - ft is
worth noting that the problems of Al as a subject a@rea are not
unfque but occur with most new developments (see Merton 15973
for 4 deep and fascinating aceount of such aspects of the
soctolory of sctence).

! cannot pretend in these notes to give a thorough
aceount of CE and fits relationship to Al. They are intended as
a guide to the mainstream of activities tn CE and to some
real, and some @pparent, points of contact with Ai. The
literature references are deliberately highty selective to
make it feasthle and worthwhile to follow them up. The next
section outifines the main subject sreas of contro! theory: the
following section that of control applications and the final
