of a system to tts future behaviour. Whilet modern control
theory may be seen to be cructally based om the norton of
system state, this is tat necessarily the most arpropriate
basis for system develooment or modelling, particularty of
blological systems. For example, the “causal” exptanation of
the behaviour of an animal as determined by [ts current
Internal state and external Input may be extremely compiex,
whereas the "teleological" explanation in terms of its
intended future behaviour may be very simple ~ Rescher (1963)
gives some Interesting examples of this In tarms of automata,
States have a definitional importance that makes them appear
fundamental, but It ts Imnertant to realize that the “Inferred
state" Is an artefact of the observing system and does not
necessarliy have an analogy in the structure of the observed
system,

Automata theory Is the ultimate expression of general
state-detarmined behaviour and it has its clace in most mocdarn
textbooks on control theory. its actual rate so far has been
pertpheral to both control theory and practice, largely
because of the tack of nowerful general results comparabie to
those of linear systems theory. Arbib (1975a) has recentiy
provided a useful critique of the role of automata theory in
modetling biological systems, and, over @ span of some years,
he has been active [n promoting the role of automata theory tn
contro! engineering CArbib 1965, 1966, Arbib & Zeteer 1969)
and tts relationshie to linear systems theory CArbib & Manes
iS7h#). This serfes of paners fs well worth reading both for
its general Interest and as an introduction to algebraic
‘Seay in CE, partleulariy the work of Kaiman (et a!

3 Contre! Apptteattons

Whilst the devicpment of contre! theory has its lessans
for, and interactions with, Afi, ft is surety in the
applications, and attempted applications, of CF that most
value is to found. Finding suitable orohtems for the
application of Al techniques [s a continuing requirement
(where ‘suitable’ imaties both relevance and borderttine
solvabitity), and advanced CE may he seen as defining the
lower end of a spectrum of which realistic Al defines the
other (standard CE ts the Infra-red, and optimistic Al the
ultra-violet, of this spectrum 1).

By far the best sources of informatton on control
appltcattons are the symposta of the tnternational Federation
for Automatic Control CHFAC) and tts assoctated journal,
‘Automatica’. Many control journals are more concerned with
applied (?) mathematias than with sossible applications, but
{FAC has the well-deserved reputation of keesting theory
closely alifed to reality and of treating experfence In the
complex problems of controlling real systems with respect,
even if it does not necessarily Illustrate elegant general
systems nrinciples,
