The topics sf the 12 t£AC symposia otanned for 1578
incitide: contro) in suace; automation in pares: evhber and
plastics; automation tn urtchare git FieiG Operations aynamic
modelling and control fn national econemies; contrel
mechanisms En bio- & eco-systems; ete. The range of interests
is very wide and barely hinted at by most texthooks on CE. The
proceedings of these symposia, and those of the fFAC
congresses held once every 3 years (latest Aurust 1975,
Boston, USA), should be the prime sources for those interested
tn finding Interesting CE sttuations in which to apply Af
techniques,

& Concluding Remarks

in the 60's there appeared to be much common ground
between Al and CE ~ "learning controllers” in particular
seemed to represent Al thinkinf In CE (see Tsypkin 1971 for a
review of this type of work, and Gaines 1965 for a discussion
of the vocabulary of ‘adaptton’ in blotoey and engineering).
In the 70's, however, this communality has lessened with the
decrease of Interest In machine learning as such in Al, and
the disenchantment with the more esotert<« forms of “learning
machine" in CE Cand the absorption of those that worked tnte
the less emotive vocabulary of ‘ontimization', ete.}. Looking
through the first 5 years of ‘artificial intelligence’ # find
nothing which can be taken as a CE appifeation. Looking
through the progranme for the {FAC 75 congress there is tittte
that can be directly related to Al.

However, this apparent guif is not as real as [t appears
since many workers In CE are fully aware of the Af literature,
and vice versa. Fundamentaliy the problems treated in CE, >
particularly now that economic and blologtcal systems are
attracting such attention, constitute a maturalt domain for Ai
~ they are problems where human activittes are being aided or
replaced by automated systems, and the frontiers of this work
must, virtually be definition, be closely allied with Al.

Finatiy, to end on a positive note, tet me Illustrate
the Interesting developments that may arise when Af techniaues
are applied to a reat control system by describing some recent
work at Queen Mary College (Assiifan 1974, Mamdan! 1974,
Assiltan & Mamdant 1975). A model steam engine has been used
as a test bed for various forms forms of ‘learning contrceiter'
~ chosen because of its nonlinearities, hysteresis, holduns,
tong time-constants, and other real-life features (like
proneness to blow-up $). The Infttal objective was to
investigate a range of published learning algorithms comparing
them amongst themselves and with some classtcal linear
controllers, {t was realized that the learning controlters on
any real plant would, In thelr Initial nafve state, close it
down, or destroy It, before acquiring much informatton about
it, and attention was focussed upon the possitbitity of
‘priming’ the controller with a reasonable Initial strategy.

Zadeh's (1973) application of fuzzy sets theory te
linguistic reasoning. seemed to offer an opportunity to do the
‘oriming’ In a general form within the spirtte of an Al
