system and based the dasten for a controller upon ft ther
comes the grand questions, ‘how wil} the owarsatl suster
respond to certurbecions af ere controlied variabias*
(stability anaivets) and ‘haw will the system performance
change If the modei ts not auitce righc' (sensitivity analysts}
~ ft was the stabitity analysis techniques of Bade and Nyquist
In the 30's that made control anginsering @ sublect area « oo
later progress may be measured In terms of Increasing
Benerality of such analyses (e.8, Lyapunov's criteria «
Leondes 1965) ~ and the weak areas of CE today are those where
such criteria are inapplicable, i.e. most nonlinear systams.
To my mind the development of techniques for the study of
Stability and sensitivity (general ‘robustness') Is the maior
determinant of the success of any field of apptied system
theory, fncluding Alt. We need to know the potential effects of
defects In our own knowledge - In practice the best technique
is not necessarily that which works best under preseribed
conditions, but that which has limited ‘downstde sotenttal’
under a wide range of possibile conditions (Radanovic (1966)
fives a useful overview of the role of stability and
sensitivity analyses fn cantrol theory).

2.1 Linear Systems Theory

if | were fool enough to try to define the differencas
between the theoretical sub-structures of CE and Ail In one
sentence, it would be that, "CE theory Is based upon model tine
continuous processes as linear systems, whereas A! theory fs
based upon modelling discrete processes as tinguistic
systems". The role of linear systems theory In CFE cannot be
over-emphasized ~ It Is both the major strength of the whole
Subject area, and its major weakness. Linearity Is a powerful
constraint that leads to deep and elerant results - that they
are applicable to physical systems fs metaphysical mastic
arising from: (a) Mathematically, linearity is a good
approximation to the local behaviour of a continuous system
with bounded higher order derlvatives (since these correspond
to energy transfers they tend to be hounded in ali but bombs);
(6) We chose the systems to be controlled, usually
manufacturing them, so that they may be selected to be finear:
{e) We certainly chose the controllers and, with the
application of suffictent negative feedhack, a tinear
controller tends to make the whole system anpear lisear. -

That, perhaps, is a suffitctent rationaie for the
domination of CE by linear systems theory and, re-tntersreted,
explains the lack of Immaect of such theory In Af where we
rarely deal with the dynamics of physical systems and choose
our Sroblem areas with different theoretical models In mind.
This great divide, although very real, is a historical one
that camnot last for ever - centro] engineers fave been ,
turning thelr attention to blological and ¢conomic systems
where the assumption of linearity Is only partiality
successful, and Al rahots are increasingty facing the nasty,
continuous physical world. Hendrix's (1973) Al paner on
“modelling stmultaneous action and continuous processes"
states the problem clearly and bridges the gap between the two
dtstotines. it may ‘be contrasted with CE papers on comouter
